The last lecture we outsourced the default text input into our own component which is simply there to
apply some default styling with these two props and our own stylesheet.
Now sometimes we want to use the default input but still override parts of the style,
so let's say here and for that I'll reintroduce the input property in the auth screen,
let's say we want to give this a default background color which differs from the background color we
use anywhere else in the application. For this I'll set a background color property here, maybe to a light
gray,
therefore I want to override the default border color to a darker gray so that we can actually see a
difference.
So this is my set up here and now I can use my default input and add a style property to it, refer to styles
input
and now let's see what happens. If I now save this, our default styles are actually lost so the styles
we set up in this component,
the reason for this is that we use props here to distribute any other props we got and this will override
our style prop we set up in here. Now to fix this, what we can do is we can move our style prop assignment
after this code we redistribute all props.
If we do that and we let our app reload, our default styling is back,
also on Android
but now our styles which we wanted to override aren't respected.
So we somehow need to merge the styles we get from outside,
so from the auth screen with our default styles and for that, we can use an alternative syntax here for the style
attribute or property, you can pass an array instead of a style object. That array can then hold multiple
style objects and they will overwrite each other by order,
so the first element is our default styling
and then I can reach out to props style to take any styles we define outside of here. If I now
save this,
now we get both,
we get the default styling but we also got our custom styling so both is now merged and if we would
reverse the order here, so if we would pass our default styling as a second element,
then you see that we would actually end up with the wrong result because now we would override our custom
styles from the auth screen,
so we would override the border color we set up there, hence ending up with a border color which actually
is the same as the background color we set on the custom styles,
that's why we don't see a border here.
So the order is important so
let me quickly reverse this
and then with that we now get a reusable component, a reusable text input component where we can
pass in styles from outside.
Now what if we would pass an array of styles from outside though,
what if we would pass our input style here but pass it in an array and maybe then also pass some other style,
here an inline style but you could also get that from a stylesheet where you set the border color
maybe to red. If you save this,
you see this works out of the box without issues,
also on Android, just a bit slow in reloading there.
So that's pretty cool,
I'll revert this but now we got a really flexible way of styling our components and that is why putting
them into custom components, putting these default elements into custom components is a great idea to set
up some default styling.